XMouse Button Control: Portable Edition.
Copyright (c) 2013 Highresolution Enterprises (Phillip Gibbons)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This file describes how to use XMouse Button Control (XMBC) in PORTABLE mode.
Portable mode means that XMBC runs without installation and without making any permanent change to the system that is running XMBC.
All settings and logging is stored in the same folder as the executable, which means (for example) you can run it from a flash/thumb drive.

There are two versions:

   32bit (x86) should be used if your operating system is 32bit.
   64bit (x64) should be used if your operating system is 64bit (x64). 
   
   NOTE: 64bit Itanium is NOT supported.
   The 32bit version will work on Windows x64 editions but you will loose some functionality.

   Simply run the executable suitable for your OS.

To install an additional language pack as they become available, download it from http://www.highrez.co.uk/downloads/xmbc_languages.htm
and copy it to the same folder as the executable and it should then appear in the list of available languages in the settings dialog.


It is important to remember that on Windows Vista/2008/7 or later, if you are using UAC (User Account Control), XMBC will only be able to interact with elevated applications (those running as Administrator) if XMBC itself is running as Administrator. To launch XMBC with Administrator permissions, right click the executable file and select "Run as Administrator". A UAC prompt will ask you to continue or to enter the Administrator credentials. If you dont have access to this, XMBC will work in normal user mode but will interact only with other windows that are launched without administrator access.

On windows 8 and 8.1, some functionality will not work in portable mode. Things such as ALT+TAB, WIN+X etc. require the application be signed and have UI Access in the manifest (which it has) but also that the program EXE be located in \Program Files or \Windows\System32. Blame Microsoft for this one.


For information and support, check out the XMBC Forums: http://forums.highrez.co.uk or contact the author (Phillip Gibbons) by email at Phil@highrez.co.uk


Disclaimer:
Whilst the author actively runs and tests this software on several machines and different versions of windows, no warranty or guarantee on the performance of the software or that this software is free from bugs, is provided. The author nor anyone else involved in the production, testing or delivery of this software shall be liable to you for any damages of any type.  

